---
layout: saiku
title:  "Users"
date:   2013-08-15 12:03:09
categories: saiku documentation security configuration
---

Adding New Users To The Default Security Configuration
======================================================

The users are stored in WEB-INF/users.properties in the following format (one user per line) username=password,role. You can edit this file to remove the default users and to create new users with the ROLE_USER role.

Once you have added new users, save the file and restart the Saiku server to see the new users take effect. 

Changing Authentication Mechanisms
==================================

By default we use an in memory authentication mechanism. This loads up a list of users and their roles into memory when the server is started and then users are authenticated against it. Many businesses have their own security implementation, whether it be a full Active Directory setup, or a database table with lists of users in them.

The Saiku backend is controlled by the Spring framework, and as such we can use the authentication mechanisms that Spring supports. We have shippded sample configurations for both JDBC and LDAP support. To make Saiku use these files for authentication you must first change the import tag in the following file:

    saiku-server/tomcat/webapps/saiku/WEB-INF/applicationContext-spring-security.xml

This needs to reflect the authentication mechanism you will be using. For LDAP change it to:

    <import resource="applicationContext-spring-security-ldap.xml"/>

For JDBC change it to:

    <import resource="applicationContext-spring-security-jdbc.xml"/>

Now that is done you need to edit the file itself to point to your authentication infrastructure. Inside the JDBC configuration file you will see pointers to driverClassName, url, username and password, alter these to match your database connection details. Also if you need to change the queries to reference different columns and/or table names then do so in the queries above.

The LDAP configuration is generally the more tricky of the two, largley because LDAP varies wildly from installation to installation. Firstly open up,

    saiku-server/tomcat/webapps/saiku/WEB-INF/applicationContext-security-ldap.properties

In here you will find most of the variables that you will need to configure, so adjust these to match your system. Once you've done this you can restart the server and see whats missing, invariably this will take a few attempts to get accurate.

To get more information regarding the Spring security mechanisms check out their website, and specifically here for LDAP information. 


